Add a document for shader (#2117)
google/automotive-design-compose: docs/_docs/shader/index.md

#### Supported Uniforms

Uniforms are variables that can be used by the shader code. We don't parse user's input so all the uniforms
need to be created using our `+ Uniform` button.

![alt text](CreateUniforms.png)

Here are the supported types:

- float: A single floating-point number.
  - iTime: A special float uniform that simulates time. We ask user to only create it when it is used
    in the shader code so when DesignCompose renders it, we only set the iTime uniform when it is
    used to avoid unnecessary redraw.
- half: Similar to float, but with reduced precision.
- float2, float3, float4: Vectors of 2, 3, or 4 floating-point numbers, respectively.
  - color3, color4: Colors represented as RGB (color3) or RGBA (color4) values, whose real shader uniform
    types are float3 and float4 accrodingly.
- half2, half3, half4: Similar to float vectors, but with reduced precision.
- mat2, mat3, mat4: Matrices of 2x2, 3x3, or 4x4 floating-point numbers.
- half2x2, half3x3, half4x4: Similar to mat, but with reduced precision.
- int: A single integer number.
- int2, int3, int4: Vectors of 2, 3, or 4 integer numbers.

> - shader: Refers to another shader, used to create nested shaders. Right now it supports to load

Reviewer: ```suggestion
- shader: Refers to another shader, used to create nested shaders. Right now it supports loading
```

  an image as input and apply effects on the image using shader code.

For image uniform, an image resolution uniform with type `float2` will be created together. The image

> uniform now only supports to upload from the disk and when the image is loaded, it will set the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uniform now only supports uploading from the disk and when the image is loaded, it will set the image
```

size to the image resolution uniform and rerun the shader to preview with the image input. Supported
image types are JPG, PNG and GIF(which only renders the first frame). Other image formats may upload
successfully but will fail to apply as the shader uniform value to the figma node.

![alt text](CreateImageUniform.png)

Please be aware that the image input is not written to the plugin data. It is added to the background

> fills or strokes as an invisible layer and please don't remove it so DesignCompose can download the image

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fills or strokes as an invisible layer. Please do not remove it so DesignCompose can download the image
```

along with the figma file and apply it to the shader code.

![alt text](ImageUniformValue.png)

### Limitations

- **Single Node Selection:** The plugin currently supports applying shaders to only one node at a time.
- **API Level:** [Android Graphics Shading Language (AGSL)][2] only works on Android 13 and above.

## DesignCompose Customization

DesignCompose reads the plugin data from the figma node and transforms the shader data to a RuntimeShader
and a list of shader uniform values to set to the shader. The shader takes priority over the background

> fills or strokes. We will only render shader if a shader is set.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
fills or strokes. We will only render the shader if a shader is set.
```

can achieve customized visual effects in the app. There are two types of customizations, uniform
customization and uniform state customization, to apply to a node's background shader or stroke shader.
There is also a specific case for `iTime` which is a uniform state customization but it is a shared
customization that is applied to all the nodes.

### iTime

iTime simulates the time and we only support it as a global customization that the design doc
uses the same `iTime` uniform simulation among all the nodes.

We provide an infinite simulation starting from value `0.0f` using `withInfiniteAnimationFrameMillis`
which provides a time source for display frames. See [ShaderHelper.kt][3]. Our implementation:

- Allows for configuring the frame update interval via the [`config_shader_frame_interval_ms` resource][4]
  integer. It will result in roughly the minimum of the display frame rate and `1000/interval`. This
  interval determines the frequency at which the time value is updated, influencing the smoothness of
  the animation. A shorter interval will result in a higher frequency of updates, while a larger

>   interval results in fewer updates. This interval can be override to ensure optimal performance on lower-end

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  interval results in fewer updates. This interval can be overriden to ensure optimal performance on lower-end
```

>   interval results in fewer updates. This interval can be overriden to ensure optimal performance on lower-end

Reviewer: Sorry I mispelled
```suggestion
  interval results in fewer updates. This interval can be overridden to ensure optimal performance on lower-end
```

  Android devices.

- Multiplies the global `ANIMATOR_DURATION_SCALE` setting with the frame interval and can disable
  the shader animation if the user sets the animator duration scale Developer Option to 0.

With DesignCompose `0.34.0`, iTime customization needs to be set manually to the `LocalCustomizationContext.current`:

```kotlin
val iTimeFloatState = ShaderHelper.getShaderUniformTimeFloatState()

LocalCustomizationContext.current.setShaderTimeUniformState(
   iTimeFloatState.toShaderUniformState(ShaderHelper.UNIFORM_TIME)
)
```

In `0.35.0`, it is more flexible that by default, the build processor will create the iTime states

> and set it to the `CustomizationContext` using `ShaderHelper`'s default implementation. At the meanwhile,

Reviewer: ```suggestion
and set it to the `CustomizationContext` using `ShaderHelper`'s default implementation. Meanwhile,
```

developer can also set their own implementation of the iTime float state to their design component. The

> only thing that developers need to do is declaring `designFeatures = ["shader"]` in their `DesignDoc`

Reviewer: ```suggestion
only thing that developers need to do is declare `designFeatures = ["shader"]` in their `DesignDoc`
```

annotation:

```kotlin
@DesignDoc(id = "TkgjNl81e5joWeAivmIdzm", designFeatures = ["shader"])
```

### Uniforms

Uniform customizations can be built using `ShaderUniformCustomizations` which provides two
methods for backgrounds and strokes respectively:

- `customBackgroundShaderUniforms`
- `customStrokeShaderUniforms`

We also have helper functions to create a shader float uniform, an int uniform, a float array

> uniform, an int array uniform and a float color uniform, which are the types supported by a [ShaderUnfiormValue][5].

Reviewer: ```suggestion
uniform, an int array uniform and a float color uniform, which are the types supported by a [ShaderUniformValue][5].
```

> Below is an example how to apply uniform customizations to background shader:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Below is an example of how to apply uniform customizations to background shader:
```

```kotlin
val shaderUniformCustomizations = ShaderUniformCustomizations()
shaderUniformCustomizations.customBackgroundShaderUniforms(
   ShaderHelper.createShaderFloatUniform("speed", 0.05f),
   ShaderHelper.createShaderIntUniform("iCase", 1),
   ShaderHelper.createShaderFloatArrayUniform(
       "iLocation", floatArrayOf(0.3f, 0.7f)),
   Color(LocalContext.current.getColor(R.color.purple_200))
       .toShaderUniform("iColor"),
)
```

> With `0.34.0`, image(child shader) uniform value can be customized using a drawable resource but it

Reviewer: ```suggestion
With `0.34.0`, image(child shader) uniform values can be customized using a drawable resource but it
```

Below is an example how to apply uniform state customizations to background shader:

```kotlin
val intState = remember {
   derivedStateOf { iTimeFloatState.floatValue.toInt() % 5 }.asIntState()
}
val colors =
   listOf(
       Color(LocalContext.current.getColor(R.color.purple_200)),
       Color(LocalContext.current.getColor(R.color.purple_700)),
   )
val colorState = remember { derivedStateOf { colors[iTimeFloatState.floatValue.toInt() % 2] } }

val customStates = ShaderUniformCustomizations()
customStates.customBackgroundShaderUniformStates(
   intState.toShaderUniformState("iCase"),
   colorState.toShaderUniformState("iColor"),
)
```

### Apply Customization to Design

After creating the shader uniform customizations, they can be applied similarly to other types of
customizations:

```kotlin
interface BrushFromShaderPluginTest {
   @DesignComponent(node = "#stage")
   fun MainFrame(
       @Design(node = "#stage") rootShaderUniformCustomizations: ShaderUniformCustomizations,
       @Design(node = "#color-custom") customColors: ShaderUniformCustomizations,
   )
}
```

## Shader and Animations on Components

> When a component transite from variant A to variant B via either Figma interaction or programmatically

Reviewer: ```suggestion
When a component transitions from variant A to variant B via either Figma interaction or programmatically
```

changing variants, it can perform an [animation][7]. The animation animates layout size, background and

> opacity etc. When apply shader to the component or its descendent views, we are now also able to animate

Reviewer: ```suggestion
opacity etc. When appling a shader to the component or its descendent views, we are now also able to animate
```

> opacity etc. When appling a shader to the component or its descendent views, we are now also able to animate

Reviewer: Mispelled sorry, last one!
```suggestion
opacity etc. When appyling a shader to the component or its descendent views, we are now also able to animate
```

Author: Done

the shader background or stroke by interpolating its uniform values. However, the animation will only
be performed when:

- The shader itself doesn't animate over time.
- The variants are using the same shader code but with different uniform values.

And the animation only animates a float, a float vector or a matrix which can produce continuous intermediate
values. So only the following uniform types are supported:

- float, half
- float2, float3, float4, half2, half3, half4
  - including color3, color4 which are presented using float3 and float4.
- mat2, mat3, mat4, half2x2, half3x3, half4x4

> Besides, the current support doesn't count the customization values in the animation due to the complexity.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The current animation support doesn't count the customization values in the animation due to the complexity.
```
